## QR Code

A QR Code is a scannable code used to store information. QR codes are used to redirect you to a specific page or to show you some information. You must have scanned QR codes once in your life when making payments. If you are interested in learning how to create a QR code using Python, this project is for you.

### QR Code using Python

QR codes have a variety of uses; from creating a payment gateway to showing you the food menu of a restaurant, a QR code is being used in several ways. Over the past five years, several businesses have started that are only based on creating QR codes for a business. So if you know how to create a QR code, it will be helpful for you in many ways.

So to create QR codes using the Python programming language, you first need to make sure that you have the PyQRCode and pypng modules installed in your Python virtual environment. You can easily install both of these modules by executing the commands mentioned below in your command prompt or terminal:

```ps1
pip install PyQRCode

pip install pypng
```

After installing these modules, you can start writing a program to create a QR code using Python. The QR code generated by this Python program will be saved on the same directory where your Python file is.

### Decode a QR Code using Python

To decode QR codes using Python, you need to install two Python libraries in your Python environment; pyzbar and pillow. You can install both these libraries by executing the commands mentioned below in your command prompt or terminal.

```ps1
pip install pyzbar

pip install pillow
```

Run the `decode_qr_code.py` to decode a QR code using Python.

### Output

```
https://github.com/zul-m/PythonProjects
```

### Summary

So this is how you can create and decode QR codes using the [Python](https://www.python.org/) programming language. While QR Codes are scannable codes used to store information and redirect you to a specific page or to show you some information, decoding QR codes means finding the value, number, text or link behind the QR code.